Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, this is Morgan Watson.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Morgan Watson has no cures activity.
moRganic: Hello. Hi. Can you hear me.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes, hello. Morgan, how are you
moRganic: Good, how are you
Dr. Belis Aladag: Good. I'm Dr. Ella DAG. Nice to meet you.
moRganic: It's nice to meet you too.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So Morgan you're new to our program you're joining us right
Yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And let me get to know you a little bit. Let's, um, let's chat about what's been going on with you. Um, what substances, you're needing help with what happened all that
moRganic: Okay, um, the substance is je je HP, which is the gamma, gamma
moRganic: Yeah. Are you familiar with it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes, geez.
moRganic: Yeah.
moRganic: I, you know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's a sedative
moRganic: Yes, I use it 24 seven around the clock every three hours for the past year and a half, when I stopped. I get extreme withdraws to the point of delirium my chest hurts really bad and in July.
moRganic: I went five days without it. And like I said, I was in delirium and I ended up diagnosed with two pulmonary embolisms
Dr. Belis Aladag: For me, oh
moRganic: Yeah, from the hypertension or whatever goes on during that. Yeah. So there's no other reason why I would have pulmonary embolisms, at my age, man. I had no other
Dr. Belis Aladag: Problems.
Right.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so you've been doing this. How long have you been doing this gap.
moRganic: For a year and a half, straight
Dr. Belis Aladag: Years. Wow. Okay. And prior to that were you using any drugs like did you start with like marijuana or alcohol or
moRganic: Meth yeah
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so. Were you smoking them us
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes. Okay. So you were smoking meth. When did us. How old were you when you started that
moRganic: Probably about 15
Your
Dr. Belis Aladag: And with the math for you taking GH be occasionally or that didn't that start happening to later.
moRganic: That didn't start happening till later.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so, so from age on your smoking meth, are you doing it all the time or
moRganic: Yes, daily
Dr. Belis Aladag: Daily. Okay. Did you ever, like, go into rehab or go into some sort of, you know, have any sober time since then.
moRganic: I yes i got clean because I got a CPS case with my son. And so I was clean for a few months I was going to strategies for change.
moRganic: Okay. And I don't know if you're familiar with that. But it's a
moRganic: Watch a drug class to get my son back. So I was clean for a while and then I lost him because they started drinking alcohol.
moRganic: And my mom has some now. But then that's when I started using method and then picked up on GH be
Okay. OK.
Dr. Belis Aladag: OK, when you when you resume. Two months after that you started the gap, then
moRganic: Yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And how, when was that one one. Did you lose this battle the case with your son like what year
moRganic: And two
Dr. Belis Aladag: Years.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Two years ago.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah okay sorry to cut you off, you were gonna say 2018 or so.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes, OK. OK, I see, I see. So that's what's been going on. Um, and I see the CPS case. So your mom has your son. Do you have any other kids.
moRganic: Yeah, my, I have two daughters one to 12 and the other one to 10
moRganic: But my mom has them as well. But she LEGALLY, LEGALLY had my son from adoption.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I see.
moRganic: It as my rights to my mom for my daughters, so
Dr. Belis Aladag: I see. And your son is how old now.
moRganic: And he will be five in August.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so you have a 12 year old a 10 year old and a five year old. Great. Okay. And they're all with your Mom, are you close to your mom. I mean, you get to see them and you
moRganic: Know, not really. Now she won't let me see him. Not until I'm sober.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Okay, so you're, you want to get help. Okay, so. So when did so. Then the last year and a half. Did you stop the meth. After a while, and it's just GH T or like what what's been going on.
moRganic: No, I haven't stopped him this at all. So I do both, which I've been doing a lot of research on it and it's really bad to do both because one
moRganic: Is the central nervous system system depressant, and the other one's a stimulant. So I'm just, I'm really messed myself up.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes, agree you know i think it's it's really dangerous and. And actually, you know, stopping. If you're taking gap so much like you're saying like every three hours all day.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Just suddenly stopping it can be deadly. So it's not a good idea to stop just stop you know it's it's because it's a like you had said it's an inhibitor of the nervous system. It's a tranquilizer.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So just like benzo like you don't, we don't want you to go into a seizure state. That's what would happen if you just suddenly stop in those five days in July, remember you said you've got delirious and stuff that was a dangerous time
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so my advice is in the future. Like, not that you planning on doing but just
Dr. Belis Aladag: Remember that you need medical help. So if you decide like I just can't take it anymore. Like, I don't know what to do, then, you know, check yourself into a hospital and tell them that you've been on GH be all the time that way they know they got to treat you for seizure prevention.
moRganic: Okay.
moRganic: I've been. I've been to the emergency room. I don't know if you can look it up or anything, but I've been to the emergency room probably literally like 30 times
moRganic: From which was out here in Sacramento and. None of them. None of them even knew what I was talking about.
Dr. Belis Aladag: The fold them up ggv
Yes.
moRganic: So,
moRganic: I'm
Dr. Belis Aladag: That's what I'm
Dr. Belis Aladag: Going
moRganic: To my primary care doctor, I just met him, he told me, because I know somebody who had to be sedated for three days to get off of it. But, but he told me because of my medical insurance that they'll probably just turn me away.
moRganic: So,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Well, here's the deal. So, so let's get to that. So now it's like okay so now we're in this situation, how do we get you out. It's how do we detox you off of gap.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And math, the math pieces, easy, you just stop it and you sleep it off and you know how it is. You get depressed and whatever. But you just kind of it just wears off. Right.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Right gap is a different story. It's medically necessary for you to be medicated so so you remember, you just said, yeah, the person has to be tranquilized for three days. So you may need medication.
Dr. Belis Aladag: To cover you while you're getting off the gap. It kind of lowers your central nervous system and you need another inhibitor of your nervous system so that it doesn't flare into seizure.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, slowly, use the other. So basically we use benzodiazepines to, kind of, we knew off of the gap.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you stop gap and you get on like something like value or something and then slowly, we get you off the value
Dr. Belis Aladag: So they know how it should work.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Now, that process is usually best done
Dr. Belis Aladag: For or, at least, I would say it would probably take three to five days in an inpatient setting three to five days in a in like an inpatient detox facility.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, where you go, and there's nurses and they give you your medication. They monitor you and stuff like that. Just because we don't want you to go into seizure and if anything happened, they can help. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So I think that's what we need to do. I think an inpatient detox is the safest for you for three to five days.
Dr. Belis Aladag: To focus on the gap, it's really not about the meth not medically. We don't need to worry too much about that. It's more going to be about how are we getting off the gap and we need to treat you for that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, now in terms of your insurance and your doctor saying, you know, I'm not sure if it will cover. You know, I, you, I would be you. We have to find out. And so the way we find out is there is a number in the state of California and
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's called SAP see
moRganic: Because I
moRganic: I have called them the national help line for that. I'm not sure if it's the same number, but they couldn't help me and I've also gone to system of cares
moRganic: With a j o d assessment and they signed me up for the same thing, just the drug rehab thing that outpatient and they still I've been to
moRganic: I've called both and been to both
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, I'm substance abusers.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, this should be it. So write this number down
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: It is
moRganic: 8448040 crap. Sorry, one second.
moRganic: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: 844
Dr. Belis Aladag: Uh huh 804
moRganic: Okay.
8047500
moRganic: 844-804-7500 got it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, that is a
Dr. Belis Aladag: I believe it's it's all California
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you call and what they're supposed to do at that number is do an assessment. So like those other numbers you contacted you mentioned. Did they do a screening where they're like, Okay, what's your substance and you tell them hey GH be
moRganic: Yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And after all that they said you need to outpatient treatment.
Yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
moRganic: It's called, it's called system of cares
moRganic: Sacramento.
Dr. Belis Aladag: System of cares. I'm wondering if it's like their version of what I just gave you. I don't know.
Dr. Belis Aladag: But what I just gave you should be doing a triage essentially where they're like, Okay, so what's your substance. How often are you taking it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And what do you need and you say, Hey, so, so my recommendation is try to call them and tell them you need inpatient detox, just tell them from the get go say I've seen a prime
Dr. Belis Aladag: primary care doctor. And then, and then I also saw addiction doctor and addiction doctor tells me this is dangerous to stop suddenly you know like dangerous. The stops alcohol, suddenly you need treatment.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Say that I need medication and she said that because I take it so frequently so many times for a year and a half. She thinks it's best if I monitored for seizure control in an inpatient detox facility. So with my insurance. What are the inpatient detox facility options.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, hopefully, if you dictate to them what you know you're being told you need. They will not go to the default like okay, you just need to go to outpatients like no you need some medical intervention.
moRganic: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So that would be my best advice to you. Now if you try that number and it doesn't lead to anything.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I want you to call us back. I want the virtual clinic, the one that you just called into
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, to help you get connected to the level of care you need
moRganic: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you try on your own and say, look, this is what I need, I need to go to detox for three to
Dr. Belis Aladag: Five days you know whatever for GH t, which is a tranquilizer which is similar to value them or Xanax, that's the kind of family, we're talking about. So people that aren't familiar, you can tell them. That's what it is like
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you may
Dr. Belis Aladag: Just like those things you don't suddenly stop them. You can have a seizure.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so that's the detox, you need and then once you do that, then you call you know obviously if if that goes well, you call us back and I'm happy to see you and we'll hook you up with therapy and, you know, doctors visits. If you needed and all that, but I think
Dr. Belis Aladag: Your priority is this, you got a detox, you know,
moRganic: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And once you detox. Then we establish care and then we say, okay, Morgan like meet with me, weekly, and let's talk about sobriety and how are you going to stay strong and
Dr. Belis Aladag: Your body and your mind are so used to the gap. What are we going to do instead. Maybe we'll put you on something like Gabba Penton to kind of ease you you know Neurontin or gabapentin. I don't know if you've ever been on those things. But
moRganic: I've heard about him because he went, I went to jail. And I was only in jail for a short time and they finally gave me medicine like that they do for people on alcohol, but the day that that happened.
moRganic: My whole body. It felt like I was just dying, and then all of a sudden I got
moRganic: Like all these geometric shapes started flying towards my eyes and this girl. She's got a wet bra and put it over my eyes while I'm in the cell.
moRganic: And my whole body started getting really hot. And I started shaking and then it got really cold and then really hot really cold for about one to two minutes and then after all that was done, I had to
moRganic: Take a really like that is shit I ever took in my whole life. And it stunk so bad. And then after that, that's when I was like
moRganic: A seen all these pictures like flashing in my in front of my eyes it for like days and I was had like this altered state of mind. It was like very, very, very scary. And that's when they finally gave me medicine for for alcohol but yeah
Dr. Belis Aladag: And that was, Was this the five days in July.
moRganic: No, that was before that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, okay, what, when did you go to jail loans that
moRganic: And that was
moRganic: Crap. That was I probably say, six months before that, or so.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Okay, watch you like like
Dr. Belis Aladag: Almost
Dr. Belis Aladag: A year ago.
Right.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Like maybe January 20
moRganic: Oh, you know what it was, um, February.
moRganic: February 2018 yeah
moRganic: And I've been pregnant also three times for this whole year and a half. And every time I've lost all three babies and it was all during which was to
Dr. Belis Aladag: During the withdrawal. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Be nice. Okay, I believe it. Yeah, your body's. It's not a yeah withdrawing from this is not a joke. It's very serious. It can be fatal, it could lead to death. Right, it could lead to seizures. So you're already having hallucinations and stuff. Yeah, that's very
Dr. Belis Aladag: That makes sense. So I'm glad that eventually they got you some medication in the jail and yeah the medication, we use for alcohol withdrawal is the medication same type of medication, we would use for you for this. Yes, that's correct.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So they use the right medication. So now we need we need that we need you to be monitored and and given that kind of medication for three to five days and then released
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then we can kind of talk, you and I, about Open House. Now, how do we stay sober away from this. Okay, great. We got off of it. I don't want to start it again because getting office such a hassle.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah boy out and
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, how do I stay, you know, calm and, you know, because if it's a tranquilizer. So you're probably used to it, calming you down and kind of giving you relief.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you have to find a new way of being without it. Right. Yeah. So it's a challenge. It's not an easy thing. But I think it's something you're I'm so glad you're at a place where you're like, I gotta do this. I have to stop.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Because it'll just eat you up. You know, it's very toxic all of it, you know, the stimulant the math. And then this and you know
Right.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Um, any allergies to medications.
moRganic: And no, but I do take eloquent the blood thinner for what I had the pulmonary embolisms, that's what they gave me with eloquence.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay eloquence and is that a weekly thing or what daily thing.
moRganic: Daily thing it's five milligrams once in the morning and went at night.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, okay, your regular about that. Good. That's really important because, yeah, it was if you have those blood clots in your lungs, you need to take that to prevent more, um, any other meds that you take
No.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Have you had any surgeries.
moRganic: I've had three C sections 2007 10 2007 10 and 15. That's it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay and nomads, who said, and then family history. Anyone else struggling with substance problems or like, like maybe grandparents with alcohol issues or parents or
moRganic: Just, just my dad, he's an alcoholic and he used method, a little bit and then my little brother. He does method to alcohol but they're not alcoholics, but yeah. OK. OK.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then when you're like on a day to day basis. I mean, you're using a lot. You're using all the time, but do you have any any complaints. Like, do you have any chest tightness, or I don't know, heart palpitations. Headaches Constipation anything to complain about or
moRganic: Oh yeah, I definitely don't go to poop. As much as I used to at all. I mean, I know is stupid and
moRganic: I do know.
Dr. Belis Aladag: constipated, a little constipated.
moRganic: Yeah, and I know also I have them. I don't know if this matters or not, but I have two huge fibroids, and they had to do a biopsy. I guess for endometriosis.
moRganic: They're like eight centimeters by 11 centimeters.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Wow. They're big.
moRganic: Yeah, but that was that was in October. So I don't know if they gotten any bigger since then. But yeah, so that's that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then to uterine fibroids. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: They figure out that it was endometriosis or no.
moRganic: And no, I'm still on April 30 is when they're going to tell me
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Okay, got it.
moRganic: And then besides that, yes, I do have
moRganic: Tight chest this like it hurts on both sides and every so often. But I guess the pulmonary embolisms, we're both on my right side, I guess. But yeah, I feel pains on both sides.
moRganic: Still
moRganic: To this day,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Well, and that was the pulmonary embolism diagnosis was in July.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Of 2019 yeah okay
Dr. Belis Aladag: Got it. And you still feel that tightness and you feel it like both sides, but you know
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: All right, so constipation chest tightness. These are kind of daily things you're struggling with. Right.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes. And then the uterine fibroids are they causing you pain right now or
moRganic: No, not gain. I just
moRganic: bleed a lot during my period.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Mm hmm heavy bleeding. Okay. Yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Got it. Okay, so we got those things.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Tell me about your social situation right now. So you are living, where are you alone. Like, do you have a significant other supporting you. Anybody
moRganic: Um, well, I do have a significant other, that is supporting me. We don't live together.
moRganic: But, um, and he doesn't use drugs he smokes weed, but
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
moRganic: Yes, it's it, but we're not that close, but we have known each other for a long time and I so I rent a room from an older person who doesn't think that are used at all. Um,
moRganic: It's older black man.
moRganic: And other than that, I really don't have too many friends.
moRganic: Yeah.
moRganic: And the G and the GSB, is actually, it's one for butane dial is what it really is, which is a, it's a industrial soul event that you can get online.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so you get it online.
moRganic: Yeah. And then once you digest it. Then you metabolize it and into it turns into g
moRganic: Or beautiful now. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so that's how you're taking it and then you interview just swallow it in water. What do you do
moRganic: Yeah. Just swallow it. Okay.
moRganic: Okay media.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so, so yeah, so your access is through the internet. So once we, you know, get you into the detox. That's it. You know, you just gotta stop yourself from ordering and, I guess, you know, it's just so hard, because it's so accessible. It sounds like
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, but you have to be your own guard, you know. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And what about the math. I do think that the math is going to be a problem to stay away from, or you think that once you get off this PHP.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You're going to
Dr. Belis Aladag: Stay away or
moRganic: I'm probably going to definitely stay away from it. I know that when I do try to because I was trying to tell other people that
moRganic: Oh, I can just, you know, jeez, my, you know, that's what we call it g is like my number one drug i don't i don't need math, but I realized when I go a couple days without it.
moRganic: I sleep too much and not even honestly puts me into like this weird delirium state and not the same as the G when I'm getting off the G. It's like a slow, painful.
moRganic: transitioning into the into the delirium, but when I stopped doing the math. It's like it's different. It's different kind of feeling, but it's really, it's really weird. It's hard to explain.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So either way, with both chemicals you feel like this physical kind of dependence, because you really get into this weird mental delirious state.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Right draw
Dr. Belis Aladag: From them right so so all the more reason to be in an inpatient facility. When you're detoxing off both
moRganic: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So when you do an intake. You know, when you do a screening triage like the 800 number 844 number I gave you
Dr. Belis Aladag: Or if you decide to call that other one again maybe try system of cares and if this one doesn't work.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Whenever you're going through the triage mentioned those. These are key things just say, Look, when I'm withdrawing from the map and I start to get delirious. And, you know, delirium and stuff like that. Very strange symptoms.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I think because of the combination with the gh be the tranquilizer. And the tranquilizer one. Yeah, I definitely have experienced the delirium and just very, you know, hot, cold, all those things very severe symptoms physical symptoms that you know only went away after they gave me
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know treatment for like alcohol withdrawal in the jail you can give that as an example like I otherwise I think I would have gone into a seizure, you know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: just mentioned, like you need. So you need to be in a monitored setting.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So that they watch you so you don't get delirious. So you're, you know, and if you are you're reoriented and you're in a safe.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Place so that you can really stay clean and off in a safe manner.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And when you exit from that facility, you'll start from like a clean slate. Hopefully, I mean, you may not feel 100% but hopefully you won't be delirious. And on your own and trying to manage, you know,
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Um, and then if that boyfriend or significant other.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I mean, if he could, you know, be aware of what you're doing. So like if you're going to go into a detox facility, maybe let him know what's going on and why you were advised to do that, but it's for your safety and then
Dr. Belis Aladag: That you're going to really appreciate his support when you come out to like remind you of your goal of like you're not going to use anymore though, you know, like, just to have that at least one support person.
moRganic: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, because it's hard to do all this by yourself.
moRganic: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Um, so let's agree to do that, let's let's have you call this place. The 844 number, try to get them to give you the detox just say I need detox, whatever. Let's see what they say, if you can get it great. If not, maybe try the system of cares
Dr. Belis Aladag: If not,
Dr. Belis Aladag: You're calling virtual clinic us again bright heart health, and you say, look, the doctor, I saw really need says that I need to go to inpatient detox, but I'm not having any luck trying like finding it. Here's what I did so far. What else can I do. Can you hook me up.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Ok ok and then we'll, we'll have a follow up. You and me once you're done like figuring that out and detoxing will do a visit. OK.
moRganic: OK. And the number is 84487 475 jail jail.
Dr. Belis Aladag: If one number wrong you got 844804
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, okay.
moRganic: 500 okay
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yep Okay try that now and then, like I said, if not system of cares if not you're calling us
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, and then all tell our team that that's what you're doing to that that you might need help and that you will book. A follow up with me. Maybe in like a week and a half, two weeks. I mean, it depends on how long you go
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, right. So we can book something for maybe two weeks from now, just in case.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And they always change it. Okay.
moRganic: What was your name again.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm Dr. Allah DAG, you can say Dr. A. If it's easier. But Dr. Allah DAG.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And it's really nice meeting you. And I'm sorry you're going through all this. But you're obviously a very strong person and you've been through a lot and
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm proud of you to like that you push to come this far and like really you're trying to help yourself. Get the best medical care. So pat on the back.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Thank you, and you're going to, you're very close. We just need this detox piece and then we can we can continue
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, okay, okay. Take care. Bye.
Bye.